:::info
The difference is the best programmers/problem-solvers are more curious about bugs/errors than irritated

it’s all about a more effective way for problem solving

Do you remember being stuck on a problem

If you can’t explain something in simple terms, you don’t understand it

Don’t dive right into solving without a plan
:::

---

:::info
 would you prefer to spend the evening catching up with a close friend or getting lost in a good book
:::

---

:::info
There were [other causes of the Great Depression](https://www.thoughtco.com/great-depression-causes-3367841), but these five factors are considered by more history and economics scholars as the most significant. They led to major governmental reforms and new federal programs
:::

---

:::info
Over the past couple of years 在过去的几年里
:::

---

:::info
a chip off the old block 与父母相像， 酷似双亲
:::

---

:::info
Perhaps the most significant impact that the Black Death had on Asia was that it contributed to the fall of the mighty Mongol Empire
:::

---

:::info
If we could upgrade our cells to run on solar power, the age-old restrictions of using carbon and oxygen to produce energy might be overcome. The idea sounds outlandish
:::

---

:::info
The Chernobyl nuclear disaster dramatically changed the world's opinion about using nuclear reaction for power
:::

---

:::info
In addition to smell, the color of your clothes also play a role in whether or not mosquitoes will seek you out for their dinner. If you regularly dress in black, red, or navy blue, you're more attractive to mosquitoes
:::

---

:::info
According to the study, mosquitoes that had been deprived of water for just a few hours were much more likely to bite people than those with consistent access to water. While all of this new research increases our understanding of mosquito behavior, scientists are still no closer to knowing how to prevent you from getting bitten by mosquitoes entirely
:::

---

:::info
Violence is a central concept for describing social relationships among humans, a concept loaded with ethical and political significance. In some, probably most, circumstances it is evident that violence is unjust; but, some cases appear more debatable to someone’s eyes: can violence ever be justified?
:::

---

:::info
The debate on the justification of violence is a great case in point setting apart what could be labeled as idealistic and realistic approaches to ethics. The idealist will insist that, no matter what, violence can never be justified
:::

---

:::info
But the question isn’t as simple as it sounds. Philosophers specialize in unpacking hidden complexities, and the concept of the good life is one of those that needs quite a bit of unpacking
:::

---

:::info
Recent research shows that people who have children are not necessarily happier than people who don’t have children. Indeed, during the child-raising years, and especially when children have turned into teenagers, parents typically have lower levels of happiness and higher levels of stress. But even though having children may not make people happier, it does seem to give them the sense that their lives are more meaningful
:::

---

:::info
Points, vectors, matrices and normals are to computer graphics what the alphabet is to literature
:::

---

:::info
when talking to a mathematician or a physicist, their understanding of a vector or point could be far more general; they are not necessarily restricted to the use we make of them in CG. For them, a vector could be of arbitrary or even infinite size (meaning it can contain as many numbers as desired)
:::

---

:::info
One important thing we haven't explained yet is what the three numbers defining points and vectors represent. These number represent the coordinates of a point (in 2D or 3D space) with **respect** to a reference (also sometimes called the origin). This reference, which we technically call a coordinate system, is the topic of our next chapter
:::

---

:::info
Coordinate systems play an essential role in the graphics pipeline. They are not complicated; coordinates are one of the first things we learn in school when we study geometry. However, learning a few things about them now will make it easier to understand matrices
:::

---

:::info
This article explains all of the basic theory that's useful to know when you are getting started working with 3D
:::

---

:::info
Internationalized software supports the languages and cultural customs of people throughout the world. The Web reaches all parts of the world. Internationalized web apps provide a great user experience for people everywhere
:::

---

:::info
requestAnimationFrame has a number of advantages. Perhaps the most important one is that it pauses when the user navigates to another browser tab, hence not wasting their precious processing power and battery life
:::

---

:::info
History never repeats itself. Man always does
:::

---

:::info
rules go out the window
:::

---

:::info
This would help the **prosecutor** gather evidence against him which could be used in court.<br />这将有利于**控方律师**搜集对他不利的证据以在法庭上指控他。
:::

---

:::info
He's a **staunch** supporter of controls on government spending.  <br />他**坚决**支持控制政府开支
:::

---

:::info
The human feature that is most extraordinary is the brain. The relative size, scale, and capacity of the human brain are greater than those of any other species. The size of the human brain relative to the total weight of the average human is 1-to-50. Most other mammals have a ratio of only 1-to-180
:::

---

:::info
It is theorized that childhood is much longer for humans, with offspring remaining with their parents for a longer period of time because it takes longer for the larger, more complex human brain to fully develop. Studies suggest that the brain is not fully developed until the ages of 25 to 30
:::

---

:::info
Mind is a tricky concept. I think I know what a mind is because I have one—or because I am one. You might feel the same. But the minds of others are not directly observable. We assume that others have minds somewhat like ours—filled with beliefs and desires—but we can only infer those mental states. We cannot see, feel, or touch them. We largely rely on language to inform each other about what is on our minds
:::

---

:::info
As far as we know, humans have the unique power of forethought: the ability to imagine the future in many possible iterations and then to actually create the future we imagine. Forethought also allows humans generative and creative abilities unlike those of any other species
:::

---

:::info
The knowledge of mortality also spurs humans on to great achievements, to making the most out of the lives they have. Some social psychologists maintain that without the knowledge of death, the birth of civilization and the accomplishments it has spawned might never have occurred
:::

---

:::info
Regardless of one's religious beliefs and thoughts about what happens after death, the truth is that, unlike other species who live blissfully unaware of their impending demise, most humans are conscious of the fact that someday they will die. Although some species react when one of their own has died, it is unlikely that they actually think about death—that of others or their own
:::

---

:::info
Humans are both unique and paradoxical. While they are the most advanced species intellectually, technologically, and emotionally—extending human lifespans, creating artificial intelligence, traveling to outer space, showing great acts of heroism, altruism and compassion—they also have the capacity to engage in primitive, violent, cruel, and self-destructive behavior
:::

---

:::info
Apart from our obvious intellectual capabilities that distinguish us as a species, humans have several unique physical, social, biological, and emotional traits. Although we can't know precisely what is in the minds of other animals, scientists can make inferences through studies of animal behavior that inform our understanding
:::

---

:::info
Due to budgetary and technical issues, much of Russia’s surface fleet is old and their weapons obsolete(过时的)
:::

---

:::info
the mayor promised to put a stop to the **rampant** crime that **plagued** the city
:::

---

:::success
High standards are one thing, but perfectionism is quite another. And as some researchers have discovered, pursuing perfection can have serious consequences to both mental and physical well being
:::

---

:::info
Since perfectionism is associated with negative outcomes, what can someone with perfectionist tendencies do to change their behavior? Although people are sometimes hesitant to give up their perfectionist tendencies, psychologists point out that giving up on perfection doesn’t mean being less successful. In fact, because mistakes are an important part of learning and growing, embracing imperfection can actually help us in the long run
:::

---

:::warning
One possible alternative to perfectionism involves developing what psychologists call a growth mindset. Researchers at Stanford University have found that cultivating a growth mindset is a crucial way to help us learn from our failures. Unlike those with fixed mindsets (who see their skill levels as innate and unchangeable), those with growth mindsets believe they can improve their abilities by learning from their mistakes
:::

---

:::info
Psychologists point out that parents can play a crucial role in helping their children develop healthier attitudes towards failure: they can praise their children for making an effort (even if their results were imperfect) and help children learn to persevere when they make mistakes
:::

---

:::success
Positive psychology is the scientific study of human flourishing and well-being
:::

---

:::warning
While positive psychology has received a great deal of attention, it has also been criticized for a number of reasons, including neglecting individual differences, blaming the victim, and being biased towards a Western, white, middle-class perspective
:::

---

:::info
anyone can improve their happiness through practices like optimism and altruism
:::

---

:::success
Money doesn’t impact happiness past a certain point, but spending money on experiences will make people happier than spending it on material things
:::

---

:::warning
You may have heard that humans only use 10 percent of their brain power, and that if you could unlock the rest of your brainpower, you could do so much more. You could become a super genius, or acquire psychic powers like mind reading and telekinesis. However, there is a powerful body of evidence debunking the 10 percent myth. Scientists have consistently shown that humans use their entire brain throughout each day
:::

---

:::info
Neuropsychology studies how the anatomy of the brain affects someone’s behavior, emotion, and cognition. Over the years, brain scientists have shown that different parts of the brain are responsible for specific functions, whether it’s recognizing colors or problem solving. Contrary to the 10 percent myth, scientists have proven that every part of the brain is integral for our daily functioning
:::

---

:::danger
You spend about one-third of your life asleep, so it makes sense if you'd like to remember part of the experience. Remembering your dreams may help you understand your subconscious mind, make difficult decisions, deal with stress, and lucid dream, and can serve as a source of inspiration or entertainment. Even if you don't remember your dreams, you almost certainly have them. The exception includes persons with fatal familial insomnia
:::

---

:::tips
If you're serious about remembering dreams, it's important to sleep well at night. While people dream during the first 4 to 6 hours of sleep, most of those dreams are associated with memory and repair. As sleep progresses, periods of REM (rapid eye movement) become longer, leading to more interesting dreams.<br />You can improve the quality of sleep by making certain you're allowing at least 8 hours to rest, turning off distracting lights, and making certain the room is quiet. It may help to use a sleep mask and earplugs, especially if you're a light sleeper
:::

---

:::info
After dreaming in the REM stage, it's not uncommon to wake up, and then fall back to sleep. Most people forget dreams during these short arousal periods and move on to another sleep cycle. If you wake up from a dream, do not open your eyes or move. Looking around the room or moving may distract you from the dream. Remember the dream as fully as you can. Then open your eyes and write down as much as you can remember before going back to sleep. If you're too tired to write down details, try to record important points and then flesh out the description after you wake up in the morning

Be sure to keep a pen and paper on the nightstand rather than in another room. If you have to leave the room to record dreams, chances are good you'll forget the dream or else lose the motivation to record it as soon as you wake up

If writing isn't your thing, record your dream using a tape recorder or your phone. Make sure to go back and listen to the recording, to see if it jogs your memory, allowing you to recall more detail
:::

---

:::warning
It's easier to remember dreams if they are interesting, exciting, or vivid. One of the ways to stimulate vivid dreams is to do something unusual or interesting during waking hours. Try learning a new skill or visiting a different place. If you're stuck in a routine, try taking a different route to work or school, brush your hair differently, or put on your clothes in a different order

Foods and supplements can also affect dreams. For example, melatonin affects REM sleep. Foods that contain melatonin include cherries, almonds, bananas, and oatmeal. Bananas are also high in another chemical that affects dreams—vitamin B6. A 2002 study of college students indicated vitamin B6 increased dream vividness and recollection. However, too much of the vitamin led to insomnia and other negative health effects. The "dream herb" Calea zacatechichi is used by the Chontal tribe in Mexico for lucid dreaming and to induce prophetic dreams. Calea leaves, stems, and flowers may be made into a tea

Other foods and drinks may adversely affect dream recollection. Alcohol and caffeine affect the sleep cycle, potentially making it more difficult to remember dreams. Persons wishing to recall dreams should avoid drinking alcoholic beverages, coffee, or tea at least two hours before going to sleep
:::

---

:::success
A poison is a substance that causes death or injury when it's ingested, inhaled, or absorbed into the body. Technically, anything can be a poison. If you drink enough water, you'll die. It's just a matter of dose. So, this list covers poisons that are lethal at extremely low doses. Why would anyone need such a list? It may be helpful if you're writing a murder mystery or wondering whether someone is out to get you. Maybe you're just curious
:::

---

:::info
In 1992, Teen Talk Barbie was released with the controversial voice fragment, “Math class is hard.” While the toy’s release met with public backlash, this underlying assumption persists, propagating the myth that women do not thrive in science, technology, engineering and mathematic (STEM) fields due to biological deficiencies in math aptitude
:::

---

:::danger
Every person yawns. So do many other vertebrate animals, including snakes, dogs, cats, sharks, and chimpanzees. While yawning is contagious, not everyone catches a yawn. Around 60-70% of people yawn if they see another person yawn in real life or in a photo or even read about yawning. Contagious yawning also occurs in animals, but it doesn't necessarily work the same way as in people. Scientists have proposed many theories for why we catch yawns
:::

---

:::tips
Probably the most popular theory of contagious yawning is that yawning serves as a form of nonverbal communication. Catching a yawn shows you're attuned to a person's emotions. Scientific evidence comes from a 2010 study at the University of Connecticut, which concluded yawning does not become contagious until a child is about four years old, when empathy skills develop. In the study, children with autism, who may have impaired empathy development, caught yawns less often than their peers. A 2015 study addressed contagious yawning in adults. In this study, college students were given personality tests and asked to view video clips of faces, which included yawning. The results indicated students with lower empathy were less likely to catch yawns. Other studies have identified a correlation between diminished contagious yawning and schizophrenia, another condition linked to reduced empathy
:::

---

:::success
However, the link between yawning and empathy is inconclusive. Research at the Duke Center for Human Genome Variation, published in the journal PLOS ONE, sought to define the factors that contribute to contagious yawning. In the study, 328 healthy volunteers were given a survey that included measures of sleepiness, energy levels, and empathy. Survey participants watched a video of people yawning and counted how many times they yawned while watching it. While most people yawned, not everyone did. Of the 328 participants, 222 yawned at least once. Repeating the video test multiple times revealed that whether or not a given person yawns contagiously is a stable trait
:::

---

:::info
The Duke study found no correlation between empathy, time of day, or intelligence and contagious yawning, yet there was a statistical correlation between age and yawning. Older participants were less likely to yawn. However, because age-related yawning only accounted for 8% of the responses, the investigators intend to look for a genetic basis for contagious yawning
:::

---

:::warning
Studying contagious yawning in other animals may provide clues to how people catch yawns.<br />A study conducted at the Primate Research Institute at Kyoto University in Japan examined how chimpanzees respond to yawning. The results, published in The Royal Society Biology Letters, indicated two of six chimps in the study clearly yawned contagiously in response to videos of other chimps yawning. Three infant chimps in the study did not catch yawns, indicating young chimps, like human children, may lack the intellectual development needed to catch yawns. Another interesting finding of the study was that chimps only yawned in response to videos of actual yawns, not to videos of chimps opening their mouths
:::

---

:::success
A University of London study found dogs could catch yawns from humans. In the study, 21 of 29 dogs yawned when a person yawned in front of them, yet did not respond when the human simply opened his mouth. The results supported a correlation between age and contagious yawning, as only dogs older than seven months were susceptible to catching yawns. Dogs aren't the only pets known to catch yawns from humans. Although less common, cats have been known to yawn after seeing people yawn.<br />Contagious yawning in animals may serve as a means of communication. Siamese fighting fish yawn when they see their mirror image or another fighting fish, generally just prior to an attack. This could be a threat behavior or it could serve to oxygenate the fish's tissues prior to exertion. Adelie and emperor penguins yawn at each other as part of their courtship ritual
:::

---

:::danger
Contagious yawning is linked to temperature, in both animals and people. Most scientists speculate it is a thermoregulatory behavior, while some researchers believe it is used to communicate a potential threat or stressful situation. A 2010 study of budgerigars found that yawning increased as temperature was raised near body temperature.<br />People commonly yawn when tired or bored. Similar behavior is seen in animals. One study found the brain temperature in sleep deprived rats was higher than their core temperature. Yawning reduced brain temperature, possibly improving brain function. Contagious yawning could act as a social behavior, communicating a time for a group to rest
:::

---

:::warning
When reading the news, it's easy to feel discouraged and pessimistic about human nature. Recent psychology studies have suggested that people aren't actually as selfish or greedy as they sometimes seem. A growing body of research is showing that most people want to help others and that doing so makes their lives more fulfilling
:::


---

:::tips
You may have heard in the news about "pay it forward" chains: when one person offers a small favor the recipient is likely to offer the same favor to someone else. A study by researchers at Northeastern University has found that people really do want to pay it forward when someone else helps them, and the reason is that they feel grateful. This experiment was set up so that participants would experience a problem with their computer halfway through the study. When someone else helped the subject fix their computer, the subject subsequently spent more time helping a new person with a different task. In other words, when we feel grateful for the kindness of others, it motivates us to want to help someone as well
:::


---

:::success
In a study conducted by psychologist Elizabeth Dunn and her colleagues, participants were given a small amount of money ($5) to spend during the day. Participants could spend the money however they wanted, with one important caveat: half of the participants had to spend the money on themselves, while the other half of participants had to spend it on someone else. When the researchers followed up with participants at the end of the day, they found something that might surprise you: the people who spent the money on someone else were actually happier than the people who spent money on themselves
:::


---

:::info
The psychologist Carol Ryff is known for studying what is called eudaimonic well-being: that is, our sense that life is meaningful and has a purpose. According to Ryff, our relationships with others are a key component of eudaimonic well-being. A study published in 2015 provides evidence that this is indeed the case: in this study, participants who spent more time helping others reported that their lives had a greater sense of purpose and meaning. The same study also found that participants felt a greater sense of meaning after writing a letter of gratitude to someone else. This research shows that taking time to help another person or express gratitude to someone else can actually make life more meaningful
:::


---

:::danger
Psychologist Stephanie Brown and her colleagues investigated whether helping others may be related to a longer life. She asked participants how much time they spent helping others. Over five years, she found that the participants who spent the most time helping others had the lowest risk of mortality. In other words, it appears that those who support others end up actually supporting themselves too. It seems that many people are likely to benefit from this, given that the majority of Americans help others 403 in some way. In 2013, one-quarter of adults volunteered and most adults spent time informally helping someone else
:::


---

:::tips
Carol Dweck, of Stanford University, has conducted a wide range of research studying mindsets: people who have a “growth mindset” believe they can improve at something with effort, while people with a “fixed mindset” think their abilities are relatively unchangeable. Dweck has found that these mindsets tend to become self-fulfilling; when people believe they can get better at something, they often end up experiencing more improvements over time. It turns out that empathy can be affected by our mindset too
:::


---

:::success
In a series of studies, researchers found that mindsets may even affect how empathetic we are. Participants who were encouraged to embrace “growth mindsets” (in other words, to believe it’s possible to become more empathetic) put in more time and effort trying to empathize with others in situations where empathy might have been more difficult for participants. As one New York Times opinion piece about empathy explains, “empathy is actually a choice.” Empathy isn’t something that only a few people have the capacity for; we all have the ability to become more empathetic

Although it can sometimes be easy to be discouraged about humanity the psychological evidence suggests that this doesn’t paint a full picture of humanity. Instead, the research suggests that we want to help others and have the capacity to become more empathetic. In fact, researchers have found that we’re happier and feel that our lives are more fulfilling when we spend time helping others.
:::

